A good restaurant description needs to make a strong first impression on would-be diners. This means the writing should be grammatically sound and typo-free — but it also means the content should make strategic sense for your brand. There are several keys to doing this correctly:

Define your objective. As you'll see in the examples below, descriptions that work for some restaurants would fall flat for others. A cocktail lounge might want its description to be a call to adventure, while a sandwich shop might simply want to say it has the lowest prices in town. Define the main thing you want your audience to know or feel, then use that as a north star to guide your writing.

Outline key points. Now that you know your objective, write down all the key messages you want to communicate. Sort them into tiers of importance, and be honest about what is "nice to know" versus what is "need to know." Digital attention spans are short, so if you try to include every selling point — rather than just the essentials — readers will gloss over your description. The more information you ask them to retain, the less they actually will.

Consider the visuals. As you determine the best way to communicate "need to know" messages, remember that text is not the only way to communicate. Many of the examples below use design and photography to reinforce their key selling points. This reduces how much text you need and helps solve the attention span issue mentioned above, but to do it correctly across devices, you'll need a well-designed website platform.

Edit & ask for feedback. There's a famous saying in the writing industry: "writing is rewriting." In other words, your first draft always needs work, and the real craft of writing comes in making that first draft better. When you have something down, read it over for typos but also play around with different word choices and sentence structures. Ask people you trust for feedback. If you do this well, you'll only have to do it once. It's worth investing a little extra time.

The examples below are designed to help with this process. It may be helpful to bookmark this page and refer to them while you write and edit. Or, you can view them all now and see if any stand out as starting points.
